# azure_intro_assessment

	<h2> Storage Services 2</h2>

Azure Blob Storage 
Azure Blob Storage is designed to store large amounts of unstructured data. This includes images, videos, documents, and audio files. Azure Blob Storage allows for storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving. Data can also be stored for analysis through an Azure-hosted service. Users who need to access objects in the Blob Storage can do so by using “HTTP/HTTPS” from anywhere in the world. They will need to use client libraries such as Azure Storage REST API, Azure PowerShell, or Azure CLI. These client libraries are available for different developer languages such as .NET, Java, Node.js, and Python. There are three types of resources offered by Blob Storage, namely the storage account, the container (located in the storage account), and the blob (located in the container). A storage account provides a unique name in Azure for a user’s data. Every object that is stored in Azure Storage has an address that includes the unique account name. The combination of the account name and the Blob Storage endpoint creates the base address for the objects in the storage account. For example, if my account name is “usermstorageaccount,” then the endpoint for Blob storage would be http: //usermstorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net. A container organizes a set of blobs. A storage account can have an unlimited number of containers and a container can store an unlimited number of blobs. Examples of containers within a storage account include “images” and a container for “videos.” In order to access objects or files in Blob Storage, users need to utilize client libraries. By working with Azure Blob Storage client library for Python, you can install packages such as “azure-identity” using the pip install command. According to the Azure learning resource,  the azure-identity package is necessary for passwordless connections to Azure services.

Azure Data Share 
Azure Data Share allows organizations to securely share their data with many customers and clients. The organizations providing the data are in control of the data that they have shared. For example, they can manage and monitor what data was shared, when it was shared, and who shared it. In order to stay in control of the data that is being provided to a consumer through Azure Data Share, data providers can specify terms of use for their data share. The data consumer is required to accept these terms before being able to receive the data. Data providers can revoke access to any new data updates at any time. Azure offers two ways for organizations to provide data and these include snapshot-based sharing and in-place sharing. In the case of snapshot-based sharing, the data provider creates a data share and invites recipients to the data share. Once a data consumer accepts the invitation, they have access to a full snapshot of the data shared with them. Data providers can offer their data consumers updates to the data shared with them through a snapshot schedule which are offered on an hourly or a daily basis. After accepting their invitation to a data share, the consumer can subscribe to a snapshot schedule. In the case of in-place sharing, data providers can share data in its original source without having to copy the data. Once the consumer accepts the data share invitation they can read and query the data in real time using their own data store. Any changes made to the source data store are available to the data consumer immediately. One way we can use Python for Azure Data Share is to access and upload datasets from a local Python environment or notebook. After the data consumer accepts the invitation to a data share, they can enter Python code provided by the organization into a notebook and gain access to the dataset they shared with us. 


Compute Services

Azure App Service 
Azure App Service allows users to host web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. Users can choose to develop in their preferred language such as .NET Core, Java, Node.js, PHP, and Python. The applications can run on Windows and Linux environments. Azure App Service offers a Managed production environment. The App Service automatically patches and maintains the language frameworks for the user. This allows for the user to write applications without having to deal with the platform. Azure App Service can integrate Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code. Different tools in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code make creating, deploying, and debugging an application more efficient. In our own 504 class, we can deploy a Python web application to the Azure App Service. From our local machine, we can view the application after running it by entering http ://localhost:5000 in a web browser such as Google. 

Azure Functions 
Azure Functions offers a serverless computing option that allows users to write less code and save on costs without deploying and maintaining servers on their own. If a user needs real time data processing, Azure Functions can process the data, then store it in Cosmos DB (which is a Microsoft database) for use in an analytics dashboard. I can write an application in Visual Studio Code using Python and deploy it to Azure using the “Deploy to Function App” button. 

Database Services 

Azure Database for MySQL
Azure Database for MySQL is a relational database service in the cloud based on the MySQL Community Edition. The Azure Database for MySQL is offered in two deployment models namely the Flexible server and the Single server. The Flexible Server is a fully managed database that allows for more control and flexibility over database management functions and configuration settings. The Single Server is better for existing applications that are already using a single server. The customization of management functions and configuration settings is limited in a Single Server. Since the Flexible Server is better suited for developing applications, we can use Python to connect and query into the Flexible Server. Once we have connected to the server, we can easily work with the data by using SQL statements to query, update, insert and delete data in the database. 

Microsoft Azure confidential ledger (ACL)
The Microsoft Azure confidential ledger is a highly secure service that is used to manage sensitive data records.The Azure confidential ledger maintains data integrity with features such as immutability, tamper-proofing, and append-only operations. These key features allow for records to be kept intact which is very important when data should not be modified. Some examples of things that can be stored on a confidential ledger include records that are related to business transactions, administrative and control changes, and any updates to assets such as contracts. The healthcare system can utilize this service with Python to protect confidential patient data. For example, an application created using Python that keeps track of which patients are enrolled in clinical trials for cancer treatment can be made tamper-proof using a confidential ledger. 
